---------------------------------------------------------------------
SimTower -- The Unofficial FAQ (Frequently Asked Question)
---------------------------------------------------------------------

	
Hello, my name is Steve Novicki. I am a gigantic fan of Yoot 
Saito's masterpiece SimTower, and I will be narrating this FAQ, which 
took me approximately a full two days to write, so you better 
appreciate it! Also, this FAQ is legally Copyright February 15, 2000 
by Steve Novicki. Do not rip off of this FAQ, I can and will take 
legal action against you, meaning that I will sue you and easily win. 
With that boring crap said, let's get to the FAQ!

CONTENTS
---------------------------------------------------------------------

1 - A SimTower Day's Schedule
2 - Tower Transportation
3 - Shops, Fast Food Places, and Other Places of Commerce
4 - Offices and Condos
5 - Hotels, Suites, and Housekeeping
6 - SimTower's Method of Evaluation
7 – When VIPs Come For a Visit
8 – Star Requirements 
9 - And Of Course, Last But Certainly Not Least, Cheats

---------------------------------------------------------------------
1 - The Time Schedule of a Normal Day (weekday) in SimTower
---------------------------------------------------------------------

	Every building in SimTower starts and stops at a specific time, 
as they do in real life. I have compiled a list of all of the 
starting and stopping times that different buildings open and close.

	5:00AM : Dawn.
	6:30AM : Hotel guests begin to check out, continues until noon.
	7:00AM : Garbage pickup.
	9:00AM : Workday begins (Offices open.)
	10:00AM : Shops and Fast Food open.
	12:00PM - 1:00PM : Lunch hour.
	1:00PM - 4:00PM : Movie runs in the theaters.
	5:00PM : Offices begin to close. 
		   Restaurants open. 
		   Income from Party Halls.
	5:00PM - 8:00PM : Movie runs in the theaters.
	6:00PM : Dusk.
	8:00PM : Movie Theaters close.
		   Income from Movie Theaters.
	9:00PM : Shops and Fast Food close.
		   Income from Fast Food.
	11:00PM : Restaurants close.
		    Income from Restaurants. 

	There you have it, a complete listing of a SimTower workday, 
either the first or second weekday. It is always like this, no 
exceptions. Also, I'm not sure, but I think that it's at 5:00PM that 
your Hotel guests begin to check in, either five or 6:00PM. Check for 
me, will ya?

---------------------------------------------------------------------
2 - Tower Transportation
---------------------------------------------------------------------

	In SimTower, your transportation system MUST be completely 
perfect and bug-free, or else it will crumble and fail when your 
tower ages. Fortunately, I am here to help you achieve this :)
	When you start out, you should have at least one elevator 
spanning all of your floors, at the most, fifteen floors. This helps 
ease congestion when your tower is older and more populated. Also, 
keep in mind that your Sims can only change elevators ONCE PERT TRIP. 
This means that if a Sim rides an Express Elevator up to floor sixty, 
and wants to get to floor sixty-eight, he can change elevators only 
once to get to floor sixty-eight. Keep his in mind when designing 
your elevator system. Also, the Sims cannot change elevators at just 
any old floor, they must ride up to a Sky Lobby and there they can 
switch. Shafts cannot be placed over other objects like stairs, 
escalators, and stuff like that, so be careful when planning them.
One last thing for elevators, the shafts cannot overlap when they 
don't have at least eight floors of free space on either side. This 
frustrated me many times, so keep it in mind. There is a maximum of 
twenty-four elevator shafts allowed in a single tower. 
	Stairs are SimTower's most primitive mode of transportation. 
However, they provide an excellent means of elevator congestion 
relief, such as at lunch hour. With a few well-placed stairs, you can 
alleviate almost half of your elevators' congestion. The Sims are 
only willing to walk at the most four flights of stairs to get to a 
certain destination, this is about the only rule to follow while 
placing stairs. You can have a maximum of sixty-four total stairs and 
escalators. They also cost a mere $5,000 per set of stairs, not that 
much at all.
	Escalators are special. They can only be used in commercial 
areas, like shops, restaurants, fast food, etc., but can also be 
placed in just blank floor sections. They, like stairs, don't cost 
much at all, just a lot of commercial space to use them in. You can 
have a maximum of sixty-four total stairs and escalators.
	This concludes the Transportation section of my FAQ. I hope 
that it has been most useful to you.

---------------------------------------------------------------------
3 - Shops, Fast Food Places, and Other Places of Commerce
---------------------------------------------------------------------

	Places of commerce are very important to your tower in the 
manner of money and population. They all have set amounts of daily 
income, like $-5,000, $0, and $5,000, and these are very important to 
your tower's funds. They also boost your population to be able to 
graduate to higher Star ratings. 

	Fast Food Places -- These are available at the beginning of the 
game. They generate a pretty good source of income, however have a 
very bad environment, but this isn't very important to you. If I were 
you, I would only build three or four of these at the beginning just 
to generate some income, but then stop building these when 
restaurants come around. Fast Food places cost $100,000 each.

	Restaurants -- Available at the three-Star rating. These are 
VERY hard to achieve the Good and Very Good evaluation, mainly 
because not that many people patronize these, they are all at the 
Fast Foods instead :) Restaurants open at night, and usually lose 
money unless they are far developed. Build most of these when you get 
the chance, because they generate far more income than Fast Food 
places and are all around better than Fast Food places, the only 
downside to restaurants is their very large price. 
	11:00PM : Restaurants close.
		    Income from Restaurants. 

	There you have it, a complete listing of a SimTower workday, 
either the first or second weekday. It is always like this, no 
exceptions. Also, I'm not sure, but I think that it's at 5:00PM that 
your Hotel guests begin to check in, either five or 6:00PM. Check for 
me, will ya?

4 - Offices and Condos

	Offices in SimTower, as in real life, are the primary building 
block of any good skyscraper. They are pretty much self-sufficient, 
but let's go over some basic facts about them, shall we?

1.	Offices cost $40,000 each.
	
2.	Offices require any kind of transportation, except 
Escalators, for obvious reasons.
	
3.	Offices fork over their rent on a quarterly basis.
	
4.	Offices can hold a maximum of six workers. 
	
5.	They do not need to be placed in any specific area of 
the tower.
	
6.	They have three different rent rates.

	The facts listed above should pretty much answer all of your 
questions about Offices, but I'll go into some more detail. Each 
Office forks over their rent promptly at 5:00AM every morning of the 
first weekday (pretty different from real life, huh?) Offices start 
to open at 9:00AM every weekday morning, and start to close at 5:00PM 
every afternoon. But some workaholics leave their lights on well past 
8:00PM. Also, you should never place Offices after 1:00PM on the 
second weekday. They do not sell until the next weekday, therefore 
cheating you out of a rent. The only times they do sell is on the 
first weekday, 9:00AM - 12:59PM, and the same for the second weekday. 
Last, since there is no limit to the amount of Offices you can have, 
you could build only commercial areas the first five floors around 
any Sky Lobby, and then use a mixture of Offices and Hotels to fill 
up the rest of the space.
	One last thing about Offices; they don't mind being next to 
other Offices. Some places, like Hotels, get cranky if they're placed 
next to a noisy place like an Office or a Restaurant; Offices don't 
care one way or the other if they're next to another Office or place 
that makes a lot of noise. It's just that Offices are the place that 
is noisy so you should place an entire floor of just Offices to 
ensure that people don't get cranky.

	Condominiums (Condos) are different from other buildings in 
SimTower; they do not generate a quarterly, daily, or yearly income. 
Instead, when a condo sells, the money is forked over to you in one 
large amount; there is no income. I think that this is kind of bad, 
because it costs money to keep those condos in working condition. And 
these figures add up fast in your account. Therefore, only place 
condos when you're completely financially secure. Condos cost 
anywhere from $40,000 - $200,000 each (please, don't make the mistake 
of selling a Condo for half of its initial building cost!), and like 
Offices, the price affects the happiness of the Condo's inhabitants. 
If you're not careful, the happiness of its inhabitants deteriorates 
due to an expensive price, so keep that in mind. And if you place a 
Condo anytime during 9:00AM – 12:59PM on either of the two weekdays, 
it sells almost immediately, so keep this in mind as well. I think 
that's all there is on Condos.

5 – Hotels, Suites, and Housekeeping

	Another form of excellent daily income are Hotels and Hotel 
Suites. Both of these provide a very good source of daily income to 
ease your budget (and, in the early beginning of all my towers, I use 
this income to live upon) and live on sometimes. 
	There are two kinds of Hotels: Single Hotels and Double Hotels. 
Single Hotels are just what they sound like: single hotel rooms. Same 
for Double Hotel rooms, they are double hotel rooms. But double rooms 
bring in more income with less complaining. Single hotels take up 
less space, therefore fitting more in a given amount of space, but 
double rooms take up a larger yet smaller amount of space, and have 
more "bang for their buck". Single Hotels are available in the two-
Star rating, Double Hotels in the three-Star rating. These are both 
adversely affected by noise from Offices, Restaurants, etc. and 
simply will not put up with the noise. If you let the problem go on 
too long, they will eventually pack up and boycott the rooms. Suites 
are like Single Hotels, but much, much more luxurious, therefore more 
expensive. But the Sims who stay in these Suites don't seem to mind. 
If the transportation system is good, they like it. Also, VIPs who 
come and stay in your tower only stay in Suites. (See more about VIPs 
in section 7 – Dealing with VIPs.) All Hotels, Suites, included, 
require some kind of transportation, in case you haven't already 
guessed.
	However, someone needs to clean up these dirty rooms after 
people mess them up, and the perfect people to do so are the 
Housekeeping staff. When you place a Housekeeping unit, you 
automatically have six housekeeping people to tend to all of your 
dirty Hotel rooms. They are crucial to your tower, because if you 
leave your Hotel rooms dirty for more than three days, they become 
infested with cockroaches, rendering the room useless and inhibiting 
other people from staying in that room. Destroy cockroach-infested 
rooms as quick as possible, because they spread horizontally to other 
Hotel rooms, regardless if they're clean or not. 
	Getting back to Housekeeping, you need at least one if you have 
Hotel rooms in your tower. They also require transportation in the 
form of Service Elevators, a special kind of elevator available from 
the three-Star rating and on. You will know if you have enough or not 
by looking at the Map window under Hotel at five or six o'clock in 
the evening. If there are any dirty rooms, you clearly do not have 
enough Housekeeping staff. One last comment on Housekeeping: once you 
place a unit, you cannot bulldoze or get rid of it. Period.

6 – SimTower's Method of Evaluation

	One thing that I believe would be frustrating to new SimTower 
players is the seemingly complicated method of evaluation the game 
uses. I was building many different buildings and they were all 
getting red (bad) evaluations. Why is this? I wondered. Well, I found 
the answer from SimTower: The Official Strategy Guide from Prima 
Publishing. Read on to find this out.
	First of all, whenever you first build something, it has a Red 
(bad) evaluation. Then, as the customers start coming there and 
patronizing the place, its evaluation slowly increases. The highest 
it can increase to is Business Is Very Good. This means that whoever 
came to the store while there is a Good or Very Good evaluation will 
be very pleased with the store. So pleased, in fact that the next 
day, they will come back to that same store with a friend. If they 
encounter no transportation problems, and get to the store while 
there is a Good or Very Good evaluation, the same thing happens. For 
instance, maybe you have just built a Men's Clothing shop. Its 
current patronage is maybe three people, and it has a Red (bad) 
evaluation. As people come and patronize the store, the evaluation 
slowly builds up to Good, and the Very Good. The customers who 
visited the shop when there was a Good or Very Good evaluation will 
like the store so much, they will come back the next day and bring a 
friend. So in other words, if you have a shop that is more than a few 
days old and it still has constant Red (bad) evaluations, maybe you 
should look into it more closely.
	Offices are simpler. See, Sims hate to wait for anything. The 
only thing in your tower that would make them wait is your elevator 
system. Therefore, if an Office is suffering from a constant Red 
(bad) evaluation, that means only one thing: poor transportation. 
	One rectification for this major problem is to personally name 
one Sim from the Office that is suffering. Follow that Sim around 
throughout the entire workday, or workdays if you have to. If he/she 
encounters any elevator that makes him/her wait, that could possibly 
be the problem, so fix it. Another way that Sims get mad and suffer 
from Red (bad) evaluations is that maybe a bunch of Sims from the 
same Office encounter a ad elevator, making them wait. If a bunch of 
Sims get mad and turn red, the evaluation of the Office that they're 
all from goes down very quickly. All Offices that have Red (bad) 
evaluations for en extended period of time eventually boycott their 
Office and seek another Office elsewhere.

7 – When VIPs Come For a Visit

	When VIPs were coming for visits to my tower, more often than 
not were they giving me bad evaluations. In case you do not know, you 
must have gotten a good rating from the VIP who stays in your Hotel 
Suites in order to graduate to a four-Star rating, then to five and 
Tower. 
	VIPs come to your Tower once every nine years, giving you 
chances to make up for your mistakes of the past. Your job is to make 
their stay in your tower as comfortable and leisurely as possible. 
Listed below are some strategies to accomplishing this.

1.	When the VIP arrives, quickly scan the parking garage and 
all elevators to see where he is, he's a bright yellow Sim. 

2.	Once you find him, pinpoint which elevator(s) he is going to 
take.

3.	After this, find out exactly which Hotel Suite he is going 
to.

4.	Once this is achieved, deactivate all elevator service to 
all floors except the one where the Suite he is staying in 
is located on. 

5.	Make sure that every, single, picky, little thing in your 
tower that he might use has a perfect transportation system.

6.	Pray.

Following these steps will almost guarantee you a successful
VIP visit. At 11:00AM promptly the next morning, he will depart your 
tower. A message box will pop up on the screen, the box deciding your 
fate of whether you can graduate to a four-Star tower or not. 

8 – Star Requirements

	In order to achieve certain Star ratings, you must meet certain 
criteria to graduate to higher ratings. Listed below are the six Star 
ratings possible of achieving, and exactly what you need to get them.

	One Star – none
	
Two Stars – A minimum population of 300 people 

Three Stars – Minimum population of 1,000 people
		  More than one Security office

Four Stars – Minimum population of 5,000 people
 Recycling Center
		 Parking
		 Medical Center near ground floor Lobby
		 More than one Hotel Suite
		 Favorable rating from a VIP

Five Stars – Minimum population of 10,000 people
		 Metro Station placed
		 New Recycling and Medical demands met

TOWER – Minimum population of 15,000 people
	  Cathedral placed on 100th floor

	There you have it, the complete criteria for graduating 
to higher Star ratings.

9 – And Of Course, Last But Certainly Not Least, Cheats

	So ya wanna cheat, do ya? Just keep in mind that with cheating, 
you are not playing the game to its fullest extent, therefore not 
getting your moneys' worth out of the game. But if you're like me and 
get the game's fullest amount of fun out of using cheat codes, this 
section is for you, my friend! 

NOTE: THERE ARE NO EASTER EGGS FOR SIMTOWER. NONE WHATSOEVER.

	But there are a few cheats anyway. 

1.	Start a new tower. Then click on the Lobby tool WITHOUT 
clicking anywhere else in the screen. If you do, you must 
start a new tower because clicking anywhere else than you're 
supposed to deactivates this cheat.

2.	Scroll the screen down so that it shows the very, very 
bottom of the screen. Scroll all the way to the left. 

3.	Click ONCE in the far bottom and left area. You should 
double your starting funds from $2 million to $4 million.

There, but I don't really consider this a cheat. I say a 
cheat is a cheat when you can get infinite funds if you 
want. But here is another that does not relate to money.

1.	Start a new tower without a Lobby.

2.	Click on the Lobby tool.

3.	Build a new Lobby on the ground floor, but while doing 
so, hold down Control while you click to get a two-
story Lobby. 

4.	Likewise, hole down Control and Shift to get a three-
story Lobby.

While this is not very healthy for your funds (it costs a
lot), it also drastically reduces the amount of anger Sims go through 
while waiting for an elevator in the ground floor Lobby. 


	This concludes my SimTower FAQ (Frequently Asked Question). I 
hope that you have enjoyed it to its fullest extent, and that it has 
somewhat helped you to become a better SimTower architect. I had fun 
typing this FAQ, and will probably type more to come. Look for other 
FAQs from me in the future, I love strategy/simulation games like 
SimCity 2000, Theme Hospital, SimFarm, and games like that. Farewell, 
my friends. 




